MAT SCALES: Hey,
everyone, it's Mat again.
I'm here to talk a little
bit more about the app
that I've been building.
If you don't already
know about the app,
you can watch an introduction
in the previous video
and there's a link
in the description.
Now this is a camera app and
direct access to the camera
is a pretty new feature that's
available in modern browsers
but not so much
in older browsers
and not for people who
don't even have a camera.
For example, people
that are on desktops.
So how do we progressively
enhance capturing an image?
Well one of the easiest
things we could do
is take a URL of an image
that's actually hosted elsewhere
on the web and just fetch that.
So if we're taking an image
from a URL, the code for that
is dead simple.
We just need some input
to take the URL and then
some sort of action--
in this case, a button
to say that we'd like
to actually go for the URL--
and then we just set
the source of an image
to be whatever
the user typed in.
So I have a test image URL here.
I'll paste it in and I click
Go and my image is in the page.
This is a very, very
simple way of doing this.
It does have a
couple of problems,
though, the big one being that
if the server that the image is
hosted on doesn't
support cause headers
or it doesn't send the
right cause headers,
then you won't actually be
able to edit this image.
You'll still be able to
display it in the page,
but we're making a photo
editing app essentially,
so we need to be able
to get at those pixels
and transform them in some way.
And without cause, that's
just not going to happen.
You can get around that
by using a proxy server.
So you run your own server
and you fetch all URLs
through that.
So you make a request to
your server with a URL
then the server goes away
and makes the request
to the real server and then
the the image comes back
through that chain, but that's
a little bit excessive for what
we want to do here.
You have to run your
own server which
can handle the traffic
of all of your users
for something you
really only want
to be doing inside the browser.
So how can we improve on using
a URL provided by the user?
Well we could use a file input
and let the user just upload
the photo directly to us.
So it's an input
of type file, which
tells the browser that
it should prompt the user
to give us a file.
And traditionally, this was so
that the file could be uploaded
to your server as part of a
form, but in modern browsers,
we can take the file from the
input and use it in the client
without actually sending
it to the server.
Now we can enhance this again.
The first enhancement is to
say that we accept images.
So here, we use the
Accept attribute.
And we pass in a mime
type, or in this case,
a sort of a wildcard mime type.
We say image slash star
to say we want the user
to give us an image.
So the browser can
then prompt the user
with a file input that
only gives them images.
So if we see here,
when we open this up,
this is showing me only the
images that are on my desktop.
Now the file input has a change
event which we can listen to,
and anytime that
the user changes
what is selected
in that file input,
this event will get triggered.
And here, I'm just
logging into the console
what the output of that is.
The files object of our input.
So here in our handler,
I'm taking e.target,
which is the target of the
event, which is actually
going to be the final
input, and we're
looking at this Files property.
And for a moment, I'm just
logging that out of the console
and you can see that
it is a file list.
And we'll learn more
about file lists later on.
The other good thing
about the Accept attribute
is that it lets
mobile browsers know
that they could send us a
photo straight from the camera
if they wanted to.
So when they pop up the chooser,
as well as offering the ability
to upload a file, they also
give the opportunity to say,
would you like to take
a photo from the camera?
This will go straight
to the native camera app
and allow the user to take a
photo there and then, which
can then get passed into
your app, which is brilliant.
This is almost what we
want for our own app.
There is a final possibility
for this, which is
we can add another attribute.
We can add in an
attribute called Capture.
So we add in Capture here.
And by default, if you
just put in capture,
that says that I'd like to
go to the camera directly.
So on a mobile browser, this
will pop up the native camera
app without offering
the chooser first,
which if you really only want
photos straight from a camera,
it is perfect.
You skip a step.
But there's a little
bit of a problem here.
You can't feature detect whether
Capture is going to do this.
And this means that
on desktop browsers,
you're only going
to prompt for a file
because that's what
the file input does,
whereas on mobile browsers,
you're only going to prompt
for images from the camera.
It's not an equal
thing between the two.
And what if a user
on mobile wants
to upload a file that's on
their SD card, for example?
If you are going to use
the Capture attribute,
there is actually a couple
of extra things you can do,
is that you can set it
to one of two values
to say which camera
you'd prefer.
So you can set it
to be User, which
says that you want the camera
that is facing the user.
So this is your selfie camera.
Or you can set it to be capture
equals environment, which
says you want the
camera that faces
the environment, i.e., the
normal camera that faces away
from the user.
If the device happens
to only have one camera,
it will still give you the
camera that it does have
and this just sets a preference.
So the Accept header and
the Capture attribute
give us a couple of ways
to enhance the experience
for mobile users.
So let's look at some
ways we can enhance things
for desktop users as well.
One thing that's fairly
common to do on a desktop
that you wouldn't do on mobile
is drag and drop and that's
supported by the web as well.
So here, we set up a
target to be dropped onto.
The target is just
a div element.
It could be pretty much
any element you like.
And we set up this
drop event listener
so that when something is
dropped onto that element, what
should we do?
Well we should stop propagation
because we're actually
handling it in our element
here, and we should
prevent the default, too.
If I drag this image
just into the browser
not onto the element, it just
loads the image into the tab
and is no longer on our page.
And we don't want
that to happen.
So as soon as we drop
out onto our element,
we get the event fired but
then it navigates to the image.
So we prevent the
default behavior as well.
Here again, just logging
out the result of this.
The event here is
a drag event, which
has a data transfer object.
Again, we'll talk about that.
And that has a Files property,
which is, again, a file list.
So if I drag this
onto the element,
we can see down here that
we get the file list object.
Now I have another
event listener down here
for drag over and
this says what should
happen as you're dragging.
As you're dragging
this over the element,
what should the behavior be?
And here we're saying that we
want the effect to be a copy
so that when the drag finishes--
when that drop happens--
we are copying the information
from the image into the event.
And again, we need
stop propagation
and prevent the default. Stop
the normal browser things
happening when we
drag that over.
And it is the
setting the drag drop
effect to copy which gives us
this Plus icon on the mouse.
Lastly, another desktop
feature is the clipboard API
that allows us to copy an image
from somewhere-- from the file
system or from
another application--
and just paste it
straight into the app.
Now in Chrome, you can
paste an image or any file
into any element on the page.
You could set the event
listener for the paste event
on the document and
that would work fine.
But not all browsers
support this the same way.
And Microsoft Edge,
for example, requires
that the element be both
selectable and editable.
So here I've got a text
area which I can paste into.
And you can see immediately,
there's a slight UX problem
here.
We're not asking the user to
type anything in but we've
given them a text input, so
this makes it slightly awkward
to let users know what they
should be doing in your app.
You can if you want take
an editable element,
put it off screen,
and then when someone
clicks onto an element that
is on screen but not editable,
you actually set
the focus manually
in your code to be the
editable element, so
that when the user pastes,
it goes to the element
that you want.
But then you run into
some accessibility issues
and it's just slightly awkward.
For that reason, I'm not going
to add paste into my own camera
app, but I just
wanted to let you know
that that option was there.
So how do we actually
handle a paste event?
Very easy.
We take whatever element
that we're going to use--
in this case, it's
our text area--
and we add an event listener
for the paste event.
And when the event
gets handled, we get--
the event has a clipboard data
property with a files property
inside it.
And that files
property, as we can see,
is yet again another file list.
And let's just show
that this really works.
I'm going to copy the
image and I paste it in,
and after a moment
because this is a big file
and it is doing a copy, we
get a new entry in our console
with the filing.
And you can see that we get
the name and modified date
and things like that.
So that brings us
to the question of,
what is a file list object?
What is this thing that
we've been getting?
We've been getting it
from the file input,
we got it from drag
and drop, and now
we got it from
the clipboard API.
So a file list is
kind of like an array.
It's an object with numeric
keys with each property
being a file object.
As I say, it's array-like.
It doesn't have any of the array
methods, like for each or map,
but you can create an
array by using array.from.
So I could say my array
is array.from file list.
In this case, though,
because it's numeric keys,
I can still use a normal
file loop over it.
So that's what I'm
going to do here.
As I say, the entries in this
file list are file objects.
Now a file object is actually
exactly the same as a blob.
So if you've used
a blob before, you
will know exactly
how to use this.
The only difference is
that a file object--
and if we look over here--
has a couple of
extra properties.
It has the last modified
and it has the name--
things that are file
type information
that you wouldn't
have on the blob.
And this means
that you can use it
however you would use a blob.
Blobs can be stored in index db.
You can get a URL
from them, which
means that you can use that
URL as the source of an image.
You can pass them around
to workers and things
because they are
strict or clonable.
You can do a lot of
things with a blob.
In this case, I'm going to
take the very first file that
matches--
whose type is an
image and I will just
set the source of
my output image
to be whatever the image is.
So this is a drag and drop.
And you can see it sets the
source image to a URL that's
been created from that blob.
So that's how we're
getting an image when
we don't have direct access
to the camera, which gives us
a great progressive enhancement
story and some good places
to fall back to, but for
accessing the camera directly,
we'll talk about that next time.
So join me then and
thank you for watching.
Thanks for watching.
If you'd like to see
more of our videos,
click here, and see you again.
Cheers.